---
layout: default
title: Post no. 222
category: thinking
---

Today I finished moving posts from various places to this website. Give or take a handful of things I posted in 1785, nearly all of my creative output (I am joking) now resides on `leonpaternoster.com`. It's taken a while to get here.

I'm generally not one for nostalgia &#8211; I've merrily unpublished hundreds of posts in the past. But I thought I'd take a quick look back through the history of this website because&hellip; because I never have before. And for whatever reason I've begun to value bits and pieces I wrote in 2008. It's suddenly become _history_ to me.

Here are a few themes:

## Angry web man (2008-2011)

Lots of posts on how you shouldn't do things when you build websites. You might have raised an eyebrow at some of my targets, but I was fundamentally right. Published the first ever mobile first theme to the WordPress directory.

## 1000 years of Tory rule (2011-present)

Joined the Labour Party after the 2010 election. Made the odd political post between 2011-2013 then got into basic income. Lots on poverty and the dismal nature of the Labour party. Largely despairing.

## Commuting, Nabokov and Sebald (2011-present)

Buy a Kindle in 2011 and download lots of free classics. Read on commute from Ipswich to Colchester. Kept a log of what I've read. Write about music, beer and other arts.

## Dr Jekyll, sassy and getting better (2013-present)

Ditch WordPress for Jekyll and Github pages. Return to WordPress briefly in 2015. My god. Get better at coding.

## Writing and styling words (2008-2014)

I am actually a qualified teacher of English; in fact I was teaching when this site opened its doors. I reckon I've written around 120,000 words since then (a novel, no less).

## Libraries and managing websites (2013-present)

Start working for Suffolk Libraries in 2013. Takes about 20m to see the problems with libraries on the web &#8211; still making the same point 3 years later. Hmm. Think more about what managing a website involves.

<hr>

All posts will live on this site. I've added a simple taxonomy so you can concentrate on any stuff you're interested in (whether that's [politics](/blog/politics), [the web](/blog/web), [libraries](/blog/libraries) or [thinking](/blog/thinking)), or ignore the stuff you're not.

Which means it's goodbye to `theother.leonpaternoster.com`, `blog.leonpaternoster.com` and `nobulbs.com` and a sort of return to how it was when this all began. Right.
