---
title: Scotland
layout: post
---

I was actually a little sad Scotland didn't vote for independence. Don't get me wrong; <a href="https://twitter.com/leonpaternoster/status/508672028002770944">I never thought they would</a>, and I assumed the SNP felt the same way:

> The bulk of the SNP leadership recognizes that there is unlikely to be a majority for independence in September. Devo max is therefore what they hope to achieve &#8211; and, more importantly, what they think they can achieve &#8211; in the short to medium term. Salmond cannot of course openly argue for this without incurring the wrath of the fundamentalist-nationalist wing of his party, for whom anything less than independence is betraying of the blood of Wallace and The Bruce, and so on. <cite><a href="https://www.jacobinmag.com/2014/09/why-scotland-should-vote-yes/">Jacobin Mag</a></cite>

By that measure the Yes camp got exactly what it wanted. If 45% of your country is willing to vote to leave it, it's hard to argue there's any widespread attachment to the union. Think how many of the 55% voted No simply because they feared such a big change.

And yet Alex Salmond resigned.

Anyway, I wanted Scotland to vote Yes purely because it'd show a government could do things differently. After all, we've had essentially the same philosophy governing us for 35 years, to more or less disastrous effect.

Now, I can see the SNP isn't Syriza or such, and of course it might not even win future elections, but Scotland has no tuition fees, bedroom tax or <abbr title="Private Finance Initiative">PFI</abbr>. Nor does it vote for anything like the UKIP. So even if the Scottish voted in a Tory government (and oddly enough, pretty much every Scot I've met is a Tory), the ground rules would be different.

Of course, I guess David Cameron, or whatever future Tory leader, could now &#8216;solve&#8217; <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Lothian_question">the West Lothian question</a> in return for devo max, which really would condemn us English to 1000 years of Tory rule. No wonder I'm feeling a little sad.