---
title: GE 2015
layout: post
---

OK, let's get this out of the way. Bollocks.

Good.

And apologies if you don't share my sentiments.

So, what next?

First, I think the sole purpose of the Labour party is to stop the Tories winning elections. To some extent I agree with Zoe Williams &#8211; [the party has no real connection with anyone](http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/may/11/labour-missing-soul-burnham-umunna-cooper-disconnected-values) except a few dyed in the wool members. But I don't expect the Tories are any different. The only parties that you'd really believe in set themselves against Labour and the Tories.

It's simply too hard to connect with a core of voters and win an election; there are too many different constituencies to please. How can Labour appeal to Scots, ex&#8211;Lib Dems, Northern UKIP waverers and non&#8211;northen marginals?

In this light, I think the reasons for Labour's loss were quite simple. It's very little to do with specific policies; instead, it was about trust, confidence and competence. [Take a look at the Michael Ashcroft post&#8211;election poll](http://lordashcroftpolls.com/2015/05/why-did-people-vote-as-they-did-my-post-vote-poll/). Question 6 deals with why people voted as they did.

The 3 most important reasons were:

- _I preferred the promises made by the party I voted for more than the promises of the other parties_
- _I thought the leader of the party I voted for would make the best prime minister_
- _I thought the senior members of the party I chose would make a more competent government_

And this is where the Tories beat Labour by the largest margins; tellingly, 45% of all voters said that the party leader was an important reason for their vote. Among Tories this was 71%, while it was just 39% among Labour voters. In other words, Ed Miliband simply didn't convince those who voted Conservative.

Compare this with the issues that were important to voters. The top 2 were the NHS and getting the economy growing. Cutting the deficit was the 6th most important of 11. In other words, if the vote was simply about what issues matter to voters, you can't assume the electorate are inherently right wing.
