---
date: 2013-09-16 10:58:57+00:00
layout: post
category: libraries
cat_name: libraries
title: Reading Challenge Suffolk website
---

So I released <a href="http://readingchallengesuffolk.org.uk">Reading Challenge Suffolk</a> today, a small site that displays a random book review whenever you refresh the page.

The reviews were submitted by children who took part in the Summer Reading Challenge, a national effort to get kids reading over the summer holidays. The idea is to share some of their rather sweet, entertaining reviews (and generate some good PR for Suffolk Libraries, *naturellement*).

It was a one day job, so the code's a little rough and ready. Be gentle, dear reader.

Anyway, it was of interest to me for a few reasons:

## There's a WordPress plugin for everything

There is no better CMS for finding a robust plugin that does exactly what you want it to do. In this case I had a CSV file containing reviews and reviewers that I wanted to convert to web pages.

Step forward the grandly named <a href="http://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-ultimate-csv-importer/">WP Ultimate CSV Importer</a>. This plugin converted each CSV row to a new WordPress post, and even added a custom *reviewer* field in the process. Highly recommended.

I also used the ever reliable <a href="http://wordpress.org/plugins/duplicator/">Duplicator</a> to move my local install to the live server. Also highly recommended.

## Pure CSS saves time

The site includes the button module from <a href="http://purecss.io/">Yahoo's Pure CSS</a>. I like the way you can pick and choose modules by appending a query to the `link` element's `href` attribute. I find the forms, buttons and tables modules most useful, but don't really need grids and base.

## Simple, flexible grids

The site uses a 4 column grid. Not particularly exciting, but I used a new technique to control layouts at the default width and wide screen breakpoint.

It works with 2 sets of grid classes. Default classes (such as `g-col2` and `g-left`) apply to all screen widths. An extra set of classes (such as `g-w-col2` and `g-w-left`) are only applied at wider widths &#8211; they sit in the widescreen media query. 

This means narrow and wide screens use a 4 column grid, but you don't have to apply the same layout to each screen. The following choices are available:

* The same layout applied to both default and wide layouts
* A layout only applied at wide breakpoints
* A layout only applied to the default, narrow width (unlikely, but still)
* Different layouts applied at narrow and wide breakpoints

It's really easy to apply and gives you fine control over layout. I'll definitely be using it again.

Finally, the site uses the lovely <a href="https://typekit.com/fonts/skolar-web">Skolar</a>, which is not *too* ornate for a children's site.

