---
layout: post
title: The middle
---

The search continues apace for a Labour constituency. This week we revisit [the &#8216;squeezed middle&#8217;](http://labourlist.org/2015/06/memo-to-the-new-leader-britains-real-middle/) &#8211; a wildly popular cohort a while back. I can see why: it appeals to a sense of community, hardwork and struggle: it's easy to identify with being squeezed and part of a mass of _normal_ people.

The problems with Labour's proposed constituencies is that, on the whole, they don't really exist. Or rather; they're a weird construct or subsection of another wider audience (see _white_ working class). Instead of trying to create a marketer's idea of an audience, why not concentrate on what causes poverty and insecurity?

Anyway, here's what's not quite right about the 'squeezed middle':

## It's arbitary

If the 'middle' consists of six million people living in households earning between &pound;18,500 and &pound;33,000 a year why not extend it to, say, &pound;12,000 to &pound;40,000 and make it 8 million people?

Where you place your middle matters as it carries a bunch of assumptions.

## The middle is moral and political

The middle allows for the easy creation of an underclass that isn't working so hard. And because Labour is terrified of identifying itself with what it normally terms a 'something for nothing' culture, it needs a clearly defined lower strata.

This is essentially a right wing tactic, a classic case of divide and conquer. Does it work? Well, we have a Conservative government, but it's quite a jump to put that down to the creation of a 'something for nothing' culture. And if that is the case, it doesn't mean you simply ape it.

## Income is fluid

Besides, household income can be quite fluid if we're moving between jobs or even between employment and unemployment. We may slip in and out of this middle range; in fact, this very precariousness strikes me as a better target.

## Income's only one part of wealth

And it's very easy for the right to target specific incomes through fiddling with income tax thresholds on one hand while removing tax credits with the other.
