---
title: IF (an occasional hobby)
layout: post
---

OK. I'm not going to talk about Labour, austerity or Liz Kendall for a few minutes. No, I want to share a hobby with you, dear reader. Or rather, an occasional hobby.

IF (short for _interactive fiction_) is a free, ostensibly unglamorous pursuit which involves sitting at a screen and typing simple English commands into a program in order to elicit a textual response from the game (or story, as it's become known since the mid-80s. IF goes back a long way.)

If you're of a certain age, it may recall games that went something like this:

<pre><code>I’m Bruce Banner, tied hand & foot to a chair
Obvious exits: none

&gt; BITE LIP

Ouch! I scream!
I’m
The Incredible Hulk (Tm)
now!
Robe Breaks!
Some gas fills room & permeates my skin!

I’m in a dome
Obvious exits: East
I can also see: Mirror – Broken chair – Gem – Metal Hand Fan – Large iron ring set in floor – Sign

&gt; GET FAN
OK.

I’m in a dome
Obvious exits: East
I can also see: Mirror – Broken chair – Gem – Large iron ring set in floor – Sign
</code></pre>

(Transcript from 1978's <cite>Marvel Adventure 1</cite> by Scott Adams.)

For my teenage self text adventures (they hadn't become IF yet) were the summit of computing excitement, which is frankly laughable to my own children. However, this is where I cut my programming teeth: I built a reasonably sophisticated command parser (the code that deals with the GET FAN type instructions of the above game) in Spectrum BASIC that could handle prepositions and articles. So you could merrily enter PUT THE HAT INTO THE WARDROBE without the game returning _I don't understand_.

Until the mid-80s this remained a resolutely scifi/fantasy go on a quest/solve the puzzles/win the game type of world with a shonky command interpreter and ultra spare prose. Then we got the Commodore 64, external disk drives and Infocom _interactive fiction_.

Infocom games came in beautifully packaged 2 or 3 floppy disc sets, and each player command would invoke a deeply satisfying _phwitt, phwitt, phwitt phwitt phwitt_ sound from the drive as the game considered your fairly naturally English command. I say _games_, but the genius of Infocom was to integrate plot and gameplay so the experience was more akin to a narrative than a puzzle. Indeed, one of their most popular releases was a Douglas Adams tie in <cite>The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy</cite> (PUT THE BABEL FISH IN MY EAR).

For a while, Infocom IF was extremely popular - and lucrative. In 1984 Simon &amp; Schuster offered $28m for the company. But all tech bubbles eventually pop, and in 1992
